Hello, everyone, and in this lecture,
I'm just gonna go over my own solution
for the Tic Tac Toe project.
Your solution might look totally different,
and that's okay, as long as it works,
but in case you're stuck on anything
or just want to see how I would tackle this Tic Tac Toe
within Jupyter Notebook, I'll go ahead
and walk through my own solution.
So, first off, what I did was,
since I'm using the iPython or Jupyter Notebook,
I imported this statement from IPython.display import
clear_output.
So that allowed me to clear the printed output
to update that print statement, which printed the board.
Then, I created some global variables.
I made an empty list that was 10 elements long.
And then I set a variable called game_state equal to True.
And then announce equal to a blank string.
And we'll get into those later on.
Next, I made a function that resets the board.
In case, in this case, I'm gonna store the values as a list.
So, note the game's gonna ignore the zero index.
So the way my tic tac toe game worked,
is if you remember, if you ever have a keyboard
with a num pad, that's the one, two, three, four, five, six,
seven, eight, nine as a little square
on the right side of the keyboard.
So I'm using those numbers to correlate
with my tic tac toe board.
So, for instance, if you click the seven on the num pad,
that's gonna be the top left square
of that tic tac toe board.
So I have my function here that resets the board,
and it takes in...
In this case, since I'm using Jupyter Notebook,
I set board and game_state to be global variables.
And board...
Oh, sorry, yeah.
And board's gonna be reset to an empty board that lists,
and game_state's gonna be True.
Okay.
So next, I created a function to display the board.
And like I mentioned, I'll use the num pad
as the board reference.
So could just make the board and player classes later,
but since we haven't learned
about object-oriented programming,
we're just using functions right now.
So, here I have my function display board
and the doc string that goes along with it.
Let me zoom out so it's a little more readable.
So this function prints out the board,
so the num pad can be used as reference.
So what it does is it prints out the board,
which is that empty list, and notice the numbers
align with a num pad.
And then it also has this clear output function.
So define a function to check for a win
by comparing inputs in the board list.
And maybe I should have just have a list of winning combos,
combinations, and cycle through them?
That's an option there as well.
So, my current function is kinda this big chunk
of bullion checks.
So I have a win_check here.
And it checks if all the diagonal combinations
is equal to player.
And what player is, it's an argument that's either
an O or X string.
So that way I can check for a win
by getting a input board, which is that list,
and then checking if any of the diagonals
are all equal to each other.
And I have this or statement to check for any diagonals.
And that dash just breaks the line there.
So this all isn't on one huge line.
Then I return True if there's a win.
Otherwise, I return False.
Then I define the function to check if the board
is already full in case of a tie.
And this is pretty straightforward
since our board is stored as a list.
And just remember that index zero is always empty.
So, I said if there's a blank in the board,
remember that the board starts out empty,
from anywhere from one to nine,
then I return False.
Otherwise, there's still remaining blanks,
and the board's not full yet.
Okay.
After that, I created a function to get player input
and do various checks on it.
So I said ask_player and then mark.
So, it asks a player where to place their X or O mark,
and then it checks the validity of it.
So it inputs that global board.
And then it says this request.
"Choose where to place your mark."
Plus mark.
Based on which player it is.
And while True, I had this try statement.
I say try, the choice, this raw_input.
And it says if the player doesn't input a number,
let's say they input a string,
it'd print this ValueError and then say continue.
So it's gonna keep asking this person
for correct input from one to nine.
And then I have this if board.
Choice is equal to blank.
Then set it equal to the mark, and then break.
Otherwise, if there's something already in that board space,
I print, "That space isn't empty!"
Continue, and it goes back here asking for another input.
So now, we want to have a function
that takes in the player's choice
via the ask_player function, and returns the game_state.
So I have this function called player_choice,
which takes in a mark.
We input that global board, the global game_state,
and then that announce statement.
And I set the game blank.
I set the game...
Excuse me, I set the blank game_state announcement,
so I have announce, just an empty string.
I get the player input with mark.
Make sure it's a string by casting it to a string.
I validate the player input, so I ask the player.
Remember, mark is just the X or O string.
And then I check for a player win with win_check function.
And then that win_check, what it's gonna do is,
afterwards, if it's a win, it clears the output,
displays the board, and announces that somebody won,
either X or O, and then sets the game_state equal to False.
Then I show the board, I clear the output,
display the board again.
I check for a tie, just in case.
If it's no one had won,
I say if the full_board check, then I announce a tie
and set the game_state returns to False.
And then I return the game_state and the announcement.
And you'll see why I do that
when I put it all together in a function called play_game.
So what does my play_game function do?
It resets the board
and takes in the global announce variable.
Sets the mark, X and Os.
And it says, while True, clear the output,
display the board.
So it's gonna show the board.
Then I have the player X turn.
Which is gonna output the game_state and the announce
from that player choice function we just went over.
It prints that announcement,
and if the game_state is unequal to False,
meaning there's a tie or somebody won,
it goes ahead and breaks this while loop.
And then same thing for player O.
Asks, get the player choice.
Get the game_state and the announcement.
Print the announcement.
If game_state is equal to False,
that means somebody won or there's a tie.
Go ahead and break.
And then finally, after that,
I ask the player for a rematch,
which I take in the raw_input.
Would like to play again?
Yes or no.
If it's a rematch, equals yes.
We play_game again.
Else, we just print, "Thanks for playing!"
And that's it.
And you can go ahead and check this out
by downloading the notebook and then running this last cell,
which is play_game.
Okay, I know that was a lot.
And really, the best way to go about doing this
if you were very, very confused on the Tic Tac Toe project
in general is just to go line by line
and type this out yourself, and you'll realise
you'll have a better understanding of how this
all comes together.
And I know it's a lot of embedded functions,
which sometimes, it's confusing.
But if you just go slowly and methodically through this,
you should have no problem then.
Understanding if you just manually type this out
if you were having trouble with the Tic Tac Toe project
to begin with.
Okay.
Now, that being said,
I hope you didn't have too much trouble
with the Tic Tac Toe project.
It should have been challenging,
and you should have had some moments of struggle.
But hopefully you didn't think it was totally impossible.
Okay, thanks so much,
and I'll see you at the next lecture!